drivers/GenericHID_Driver/README.md, before:

## Generic HID Driver Implementation

The generic Human Interface Devices (HID) driver implements the base
functionality required to start using any device with an HID interface.
It allows discovering, read and change states of any sensors, actuators,
indicators and other physical parts of such devices.

It is highly recommended to get familiar with the [Device Class Definition for
Human Interface Devices](http://www.usb.org/developers/hidpage/HID1_11.pdf)
specification prior to using this driver.

### Include the HID Driver Library

The driver depends on the base USB Framework, and thus it needs
to be included by an application developer. Please follow the
[Application Developer Guide](./ApplicationDevelopmentGuide.md#include-the-framework-and-drivers)
instruction about how to start using the USB framework.

**NOTE:** To include the HID driver into your application,
add the following statement:

```squirrel
#require "USB.device.lib.nut:1.0.0"
```

and then either include the Generic HID driver code into your application
by copy-pasting the content of the content of [USB.HID.device.lib.nut](./USB.HID.device.lib.nut) file
or use the Builder's [include statements](https://github.com/electricimp/builder#include).

In the code snippet below, the Generic HID driver is included into an application:

```squirrel
#require "USB.device.lib.nut:1.0.0"
@include "github:electricimp/usb/drivers/GenericHID_Driver/USB.HID.device.lib.nut"
```

### Basic Concepts

The Human Interface Devices group consists of devices that are used by 
humans to interact with computer systems. Typical examples of HID class devices are:

- Keyboards and pointing devices (mouse, trackballs, joysticks)
- Bar-code readers, thermometers, voltmeters
- LCD, LED indicator
- Speakers

The USB HID class requires that every device describes how it will communicate
with the host device in order to accurately predict and define all current and
future human interface devices. During enumeration, the device describes how its
reports are to be structured so that the host device can properly prepare to
receive this information.

Each USB HID interface communicates with the host using either a `control` or
an `interrupt` endpoints. `Isochronous` and `bulk` endpoints are not used in
HID class devices. Both IN and OUT control transfers are required for enumeration;
only an IN interrupt transfer is required for HID reports. OUT interrupt
transfers are optional in HID-class devices.

The host periodically polls the device's interrupt IN endpoint during operation.
When the device has data to send it forms a report and sends it as a reply to the
poll token. When a vendor makes a
custom USB HID class device, the reports formed by the device need to match the
report description given during enumeration and the driver installed on the host
system. This way, it is possible for the USB HID class to be extremely flexible.

For more details on the HID reports structure and attributes please refer to
HID usage table [specification](http://www.usb.org/developers/hidpage/Hut1_12v2.pdf).

The generic HID Driver implementation exposes a set of classes
that implement some of the HID Concepts
in Squirrel. [HIDReport class](#hidreport-class) wraps a
set of input, output and feature [HID Report Item](#hidreportitem-class)
objects. Typically applications deal with [HIDReport](#hidreport-class)
instances obtained from [HIDDriver](#hiddriver-class).

There are two ways to retrieve data from a device and only one way
to transfer data to a device. They are implemented as
the following APIs:

- [HIDReport.request()](#request), asynchronous request to receive inbound report data if available
- [HIDDriver.getAsync](#getasynccb) allows to asynchronously read input items for the driver reports
- [HIDReport.send](#send) Synchronously send the output items

**NOTE:** Asynchronous read require special attention in a case when there are
several input reports described by HID Report Descriptor. Data read through this function depends on the rate at which duplicate reports
are generated for the specified report. See section __7.2.4__ of
[HID specification](http://www.usb.org/developers/hidpage/HID1_11.pdf) for more details.

When report is successfully read, its input items
(can be acquired via [getInputItems()](#getinputitems) function)
are updated with the new data.

Output items (can acquired via [getOutputItems()](#getoutputitems))
need to be updated individually prior to sending them to the device.

Data conversion between different measuring units and
logical-to-physical data item values mapping are out of the scope
of the driver implementation.

### Complete Example

```squirrel

hidDriver <- null;

function hidEventListener(error, report) {
    server.log("HID event");

    // Process the report here

    // Initiate a new read operation
    hidDriver.getAsync(hidEventListener);
}

function usbEventListener(event, driver) {
    if (event == USB_DRIVER_STATE_STARTED) {
       hidDriver = driver;
       hidDriver.getAsync(hidEventListener);
    }
}

host <- USB.Host(hardware.usb, [HIDDriver]);

host.setDriverListener(usbEventListener);

server.log("USB initialization complete");
```

### Real-World Application Example

Please refer to [HIDKeyboard](./../drivers/HIDKeyboard) as an
example of this driver application.

### Known Limitation

The driver issues special command `"Get Descriptor"` to acquire HID report
descriptor. Some devices don't support this command, so the driver doesn't
match such devices. This issue may be addressed in the future releases.

### Public API

#### HID Constants

Following constants are used to compose
[HIDReport.Item.itemFlags](#hidreportitem-class) field.

See section __6.2.2.5__ of
[HID specification](http://www.usb.org/developers/hidpage/HID1_11.pdf) for more details.

| Constant name | Constant description |
| ------------- | -------------------- |
| HID_IOF_CONSTANT           | the item is constant value |
| HID_IOF_DATA               | the item is data value |
| HID_IOF_VARIABLE           | the item creates variable data fields in reports |
| HID_IOF_ARRAY              | the item creates array data fields in reports |
| HID_IOF_RELATIVE           | the data is relative</br>(indicating the change in value from the last report) |
| HID_IOF_ABSOLUTE           | the data is absolute</br>(based on a fixed origin) |
| HID_IOF_WRAP               | the data “rolls over”</br>when reaching either the extreme high or low value |
| HID_IOF_NO_WRAP            | the data doesn't “rolls over”</br>when reaching either the extreme high or low value |
| HID_IOF_NON_LINEAR         | the raw data from the device has been processed |
| HID_IOF_LINEAR             | the raw data from the device equals to logic data |
| HID_IOF_NO_PREFERRED_STATE | the control has not a preferred state |
| HID_IOF_PREFERRED_STATE    | the control has a preferred state  |
| HID_IOF_NULLSTATE          | the control has a state in which it is not sending meaningful data |
| HID_IOF_NO_NULL_POSITION   | the control has not a state in which it is not sending meaningful data|
| HID_IOF_VOLATILE           | the Feature or Output control's value should be changed by the host|
| HID_IOF_NON_VOLATILE       | the Feature or Output control's value may be changed not only by the host|
| HID_IOF_BUFFERED_BYTES     | the contents are not interpreted as a single numeric quantity |
| HID_IOF_BITFIELD           | the control emits a fixed-size stream of bytes |

#### HIDDriver Class

**HIDDriver** is a class that represents a single HID interface of any device.
It retrieves HID report descriptor from the corresponding device and converts it into a set
of [HIDReport](#hidreport-class) instances. The class extends the base
[USB.Driver](./DriverDevelopmentGuide.md#usbdriver-class) class.

##### match(device, interfaces)

Overrides the base
[USB.Driver.match()](DriverDevelopmentGuide.md#matchdeviceobject-interfaces) method.

This function looks into the list of provided [interfaces](./DriverDevelopmentGuide.md#interface-descriptor),
and finds those of class value USB_CLASS_HID (`3`). Then it tries
to extract and parse HID Report descriptors (see [notes](#known-limitation)).
If a problem occurs the function returns `null`. Otherwise the methods returns
a list of HIDDriver instances, one per each of the corresponding HID interface.

##### getReports()

Returns an array of [HIDReport](#hidreport-class) instances

##### getAsync(cb)

Performs read through an Interrupt IN endpoint. The result depends on how many
Input Reports are available for the associated interface. In case of multiple
Input Reports, the result depends on duplicate report generation rate
(can be changed by [setIdleTimeMs](#setidletimemsmillis)). See section
__7.2.4__ of [HID specification](http://www.usb.org/developers/hidpage/HID1_11.pdf)
for more details.

May throw an exception in case of the following situations:

1. there is an ongoing read operation from the corresponding endpoint
2. input endpoint is closed
3. an error occurred on the native USB API level
4. the interface descriptor doesn't declare any IN endpoints on the device
5. input endpoint was not open due to the limits
of the native USB [API](https://developer.electricimp.com/api/hardware/usb).

If endpoint was not open due to the limit of open Interrupt Endpoints,
the developer may use the synchronous [HIDReport.request()](#request) call,
which works through the endpoint 0 and isn't affected by the limitation.

###### Callback Function

The must accept the following parameters.

| Parameter | Type | Description |
| --------- | ---- | ----------- |
| *error*   | String  | Non null parameter indicates an error |
| *report*  | [HIDReport](#hidreport-class) | Read report |

#### HIDReport Class

This class represents HID Reports - a data packet
that can be transferred to or from the device.

##### request()

Obtains HID state from the device through the Endpoint 0.
The method doesn't return anything but may throw an exception
if an error occurs during the transfer or if the
control endpoint is closed.

##### send()

Synchronously sends the output items. The items value need to be updated
prior to the call. Throws an exception if the endpoint is closed or an error
occurs during the native USB API call.

##### setIdleTimeMs(millis)

Issues the `"Set Idle"` command through the associated endpoint. Returns nothing
but may throw an exception, if the endpoint 0 is closed or an error
occurs during the native USB API call.

The function takes the following arguments:

| Parameters name | Type | Description |
| --------------- | ---- | ----------- |
| *millis* | Integer | milliseconds, the idle time for the report, between 4 - 1020 ms |

Refer to the section __7.2.4__ of
[HID specification](http://www.usb.org/developers/hidpage/HID1_11.pdf) for more details.

##### getInputItems()

Returns an array of input items or null if no items were found in the report descriptor.

##### getOutputItems()

Returns an array of output items or null if no items were found in the report descriptor.

##### getFeatureItems()

Returns an array of feature items or null if no items were found in the report descriptor.


#### HIDReport.Item class

The class represents a single report item in an HID Report.
It has a number of attributes:

| Class Field | Type | Description |
| ----------- | ---- | ----------- |
| *attributes* | [HIDReport.Item.Attributes](#hidreportitemattributes-class) | HID report item tags |
| *itemFlags*  | Integer | Defines HID Report Item value attributes. [HID Constants](#hid-constants). Should be used by application for processing the Item's data |
| *collectionPath* | [HIDReport.Collection](#hidreportcollection) | Identifies a collection, the item belongs to |

##### print(stream)

Debug function, prints the report data to the specified function `stream`, for example, `server.log`.

##### get()

Returns the present HID report item value.

##### set(value)

Updates HID report item value with the data provided. The parameter should be
convertible to Integer with `tointeger()` function.


#### HIDReport.Item.Attributes class

The class that contains the HID report item attributes.

| Class field | Type | Description |
| ----------- | ---- | ----------- |
| *logicalMaximum* | Integer | Maximum value that a variable or array item will report |
| *logicalMinimum* | Integer | Minimum value that a variable or array item will report|
| *physicalMaximum* | Integer | This represents the Logical Maximum with units applied to it |
| *physicalMinimum* | Integer | This represents the Logical Minimum with units applied to it |
| *unitExponent* | Integer | Value of the unit exponent |
| *unitType* | Integer | Item unit |
| *usagePage* | Integer | The item Usage Page |
| *usageUsage* | Integer | The item usage ID|
| *bitSize* | Integer | A number of bits this item occupies in the report|

##### print(stream)

Debug function, prints the report data to the specified function `stream`, for example, `server.log`.

#### HIDReport.Collection

This class is used to create items collection hierarchy. Collection Path
is constructed as a chain of linked `HIDReport.Collection` instances.

##### constructor(parent)

A new collection is always created as part of a collection path and thus should
receive the previous element in the chain as an argument. If a new path
is created, `null` should be passed as an argument.

##### print(stream)

Debug function, prints the report data to the specified function `stream`, for example, `server.log`.

Commit message:

Added disclaimers for all the driver documentation.

drivers/GenericHID_Driver/README.md, after:

## Generic HID Driver Implementation

The generic Human Interface Devices (HID) driver implements the base
functionality required to start using any device with an HID interface.
It allows discovering, read and change states of any sensors, actuators,
indicators and other physical parts of such devices.

It is highly recommended to get familiar with the [Device Class Definition for
Human Interface Devices](http://www.usb.org/developers/hidpage/HID1_11.pdf)
specification prior to using this driver.

**NOTE**: Please use the driver examples for reference only. They were tested with a limited number
of devices and may not support all devices of that type.

### Include the HID Driver Library

The driver depends on the base USB Framework, and thus it needs
to be included by an application developer. Please follow the
[Application Developer Guide](./ApplicationDevelopmentGuide.md#include-the-framework-and-drivers)
instruction about how to start using the USB framework.

**NOTE:** To include the HID driver into your application,
add the following statement:

```squirrel
#require "USB.device.lib.nut:1.0.0"
```

and then either include the Generic HID driver code into your application
by copy-pasting the content of the content of [USB.HID.device.lib.nut](./USB.HID.device.lib.nut) file
or use the Builder's [include statements](https://github.com/electricimp/builder#include).

In the code snippet below, the Generic HID driver is included into an application:

```squirrel
#require "USB.device.lib.nut:1.0.0"
@include "github:electricimp/usb/drivers/GenericHID_Driver/USB.HID.device.lib.nut"
```

### Basic Concepts

The Human Interface Devices group consists of devices that are used by
humans to interact with computer systems. Typical examples of HID class devices are:

- Keyboards and pointing devices (mouse, trackballs, joysticks)
- Bar-code readers, thermometers, voltmeters
- LCD, LED indicator
- Speakers

The USB HID class requires that every device describes how it will communicate
with the host device in order to accurately predict and define all current and
future human interface devices. During enumeration, the device describes how its
reports are to be structured so that the host device can properly prepare to
receive this information.

Each USB HID interface communicates with the host using either a `control` or
an `interrupt` endpoints. `Isochronous` and `bulk` endpoints are not used in
HID class devices. Both IN and OUT control transfers are required for enumeration;
only an IN interrupt transfer is required for HID reports. OUT interrupt
transfers are optional in HID-class devices.

The host periodically polls the device's interrupt IN endpoint during operation.
When the device has data to send it forms a report and sends it as a reply to the
poll token. When a vendor makes a
custom USB HID class device, the reports formed by the device need to match the
report description given during enumeration and the driver installed on the host
system. This way, it is possible for the USB HID class to be extremely flexible.

For more details on the HID reports structure and attributes please refer to
HID usage table [specification](http://www.usb.org/developers/hidpage/Hut1_12v2.pdf).

The generic HID Driver implementation exposes a set of classes
that implement some of the HID Concepts
in Squirrel. [HIDReport class](#hidreport-class) wraps a
set of input, output and feature [HID Report Item](#hidreportitem-class)
objects. Typically applications deal with [HIDReport](#hidreport-class)
instances obtained from [HIDDriver](#hiddriver-class).

There are two ways to retrieve data from a device and only one way
to transfer data to a device. They are implemented as
the following APIs:

- [HIDReport.request()](#request), asynchronous request to receive inbound report data if available
- [HIDDriver.getAsync](#getasynccb) allows to asynchronously read input items for the driver reports
- [HIDReport.send](#send) Synchronously send the output items

**NOTE:** Asynchronous read require special attention in a case when there are
several input reports described by HID Report Descriptor. Data read through this function depends on the rate at which duplicate reports
are generated for the specified report. See section __7.2.4__ of
[HID specification](http://www.usb.org/developers/hidpage/HID1_11.pdf) for more details.

When report is successfully read, its input items
(can be acquired via [getInputItems()](#getinputitems) function)
are updated with the new data.

Output items (can acquired via [getOutputItems()](#getoutputitems))
need to be updated individually prior to sending them to the device.

Data conversion between different measuring units and
logical-to-physical data item values mapping are out of the scope
of the driver implementation.

### Complete Example

```squirrel

hidDriver <- null;

function hidEventListener(error, report) {
    server.log("HID event");

    // Process the report here

    // Initiate a new read operation
    hidDriver.getAsync(hidEventListener);
}

function usbEventListener(event, driver) {
    if (event == USB_DRIVER_STATE_STARTED) {
       hidDriver = driver;
       hidDriver.getAsync(hidEventListener);
    }
}

host <- USB.Host(hardware.usb, [HIDDriver]);

host.setDriverListener(usbEventListener);

server.log("USB initialization complete");
```

### Real-World Application Example

Please refer to [HIDKeyboard](./../drivers/HIDKeyboard) as an
example of this driver application.

### Known Limitation

The driver issues special command `"Get Descriptor"` to acquire HID report
descriptor. Some devices don't support this command, so the driver doesn't
match such devices. This issue may be addressed in the future releases.

### Public API

#### HID Constants

Following constants are used to compose
[HIDReport.Item.itemFlags](#hidreportitem-class) field.

See section __6.2.2.5__ of
[HID specification](http://www.usb.org/developers/hidpage/HID1_11.pdf) for more details.

| Constant name | Constant description |
| ------------- | -------------------- |
| HID_IOF_CONSTANT           | the item is constant value |
| HID_IOF_DATA               | the item is data value |
| HID_IOF_VARIABLE           | the item creates variable data fields in reports |
| HID_IOF_ARRAY              | the item creates array data fields in reports |
| HID_IOF_RELATIVE           | the data is relative</br>(indicating the change in value from the last report) |
| HID_IOF_ABSOLUTE           | the data is absolute</br>(based on a fixed origin) |
| HID_IOF_WRAP               | the data “rolls over”</br>when reaching either the extreme high or low value |
| HID_IOF_NO_WRAP            | the data doesn't “rolls over”</br>when reaching either the extreme high or low value |
| HID_IOF_NON_LINEAR         | the raw data from the device has been processed |
| HID_IOF_LINEAR             | the raw data from the device equals to logic data |
| HID_IOF_NO_PREFERRED_STATE | the control has not a preferred state |
| HID_IOF_PREFERRED_STATE    | the control has a preferred state  |
| HID_IOF_NULLSTATE          | the control has a state in which it is not sending meaningful data |
| HID_IOF_NO_NULL_POSITION   | the control has not a state in which it is not sending meaningful data|
| HID_IOF_VOLATILE           | the Feature or Output control's value should be changed by the host|
| HID_IOF_NON_VOLATILE       | the Feature or Output control's value may be changed not only by the host|
| HID_IOF_BUFFERED_BYTES     | the contents are not interpreted as a single numeric quantity |
| HID_IOF_BITFIELD           | the control emits a fixed-size stream of bytes |

#### HIDDriver Class

**HIDDriver** is a class that represents a single HID interface of any device.
It retrieves HID report descriptor from the corresponding device and converts it into a set
of [HIDReport](#hidreport-class) instances. The class extends the base
[USB.Driver](./DriverDevelopmentGuide.md#usbdriver-class) class.

##### match(device, interfaces)

Overrides the base
[USB.Driver.match()](DriverDevelopmentGuide.md#matchdeviceobject-interfaces) method.

This function looks into the list of provided [interfaces](./DriverDevelopmentGuide.md#interface-descriptor),
and finds those of class value USB_CLASS_HID (`3`). Then it tries
to extract and parse HID Report descriptors (see [notes](#known-limitation)).
If a problem occurs the function returns `null`. Otherwise the methods returns
a list of HIDDriver instances, one per each of the corresponding HID interface.

##### getReports()

Returns an array of [HIDReport](#hidreport-class) instances

##### getAsync(cb)

Performs read through an Interrupt IN endpoint. The result depends on how many
Input Reports are available for the associated interface. In case of multiple
Input Reports, the result depends on duplicate report generation rate
(can be changed by [setIdleTimeMs](#setidletimemsmillis)). See section
__7.2.4__ of [HID specification](http://www.usb.org/developers/hidpage/HID1_11.pdf)
for more details.

May throw an exception in case of the following situations:

1. there is an ongoing read operation from the corresponding endpoint
2. input endpoint is closed
3. an error occurred on the native USB API level
4. the interface descriptor doesn't declare any IN endpoints on the device
5. input endpoint was not open due to the limits
of the native USB [API](https://developer.electricimp.com/api/hardware/usb).

If endpoint was not open due to the limit of open Interrupt Endpoints,
the developer may use the synchronous [HIDReport.request()](#request) call,
which works through the endpoint 0 and isn't affected by the limitation.

###### Callback Function

The must accept the following parameters.

| Parameter | Type | Description |
| --------- | ---- | ----------- |
| *error*   | String  | Non null parameter indicates an error |
| *report*  | [HIDReport](#hidreport-class) | Read report |

#### HIDReport Class

This class represents HID Reports - a data packet
that can be transferred to or from the device.

##### request()

Obtains HID state from the device through the Endpoint 0.
The method doesn't return anything but may throw an exception
if an error occurs during the transfer or if the
control endpoint is closed.

##### send()

Synchronously sends the output items. The items value need to be updated
prior to the call. Throws an exception if the endpoint is closed or an error
occurs during the native USB API call.

##### setIdleTimeMs(millis)

Issues the `"Set Idle"` command through the associated endpoint. Returns nothing
but may throw an exception, if the endpoint 0 is closed or an error
occurs during the native USB API call.

The function takes the following arguments:

| Parameters name | Type | Description |
| --------------- | ---- | ----------- |
| *millis* | Integer | milliseconds, the idle time for the report, between 4 - 1020 ms |

Refer to the section __7.2.4__ of
[HID specification](http://www.usb.org/developers/hidpage/HID1_11.pdf) for more details.

##### getInputItems()

Returns an array of input items or null if no items were found in the report descriptor.

##### getOutputItems()

Returns an array of output items or null if no items were found in the report descriptor.

##### getFeatureItems()

Returns an array of feature items or null if no items were found in the report descriptor.


#### HIDReport.Item class

The class represents a single report item in an HID Report.
It has a number of attributes:

| Class Field | Type | Description |
| ----------- | ---- | ----------- |
| *attributes* | [HIDReport.Item.Attributes](#hidreportitemattributes-class) | HID report item tags |
| *itemFlags*  | Integer | Defines HID Report Item value attributes. [HID Constants](#hid-constants). Should be used by application for processing the Item's data |
| *collectionPath* | [HIDReport.Collection](#hidreportcollection) | Identifies a collection, the item belongs to |

##### print(stream)

Debug function, prints the report data to the specified function `stream`, for example, `server.log`.

##### get()

Returns the present HID report item value.

##### set(value)

Updates HID report item value with the data provided. The parameter should be
convertible to Integer with `tointeger()` function.


#### HIDReport.Item.Attributes class

The class that contains the HID report item attributes.

| Class field | Type | Description |
| ----------- | ---- | ----------- |
| *logicalMaximum* | Integer | Maximum value that a variable or array item will report |
| *logicalMinimum* | Integer | Minimum value that a variable or array item will report|
| *physicalMaximum* | Integer | This represents the Logical Maximum with units applied to it |
| *physicalMinimum* | Integer | This represents the Logical Minimum with units applied to it |
| *unitExponent* | Integer | Value of the unit exponent |
| *unitType* | Integer | Item unit |
| *usagePage* | Integer | The item Usage Page |
| *usageUsage* | Integer | The item usage ID|
| *bitSize* | Integer | A number of bits this item occupies in the report|

##### print(stream)

Debug function, prints the report data to the specified function `stream`, for example, `server.log`.

#### HIDReport.Collection

This class is used to create items collection hierarchy. Collection Path
is constructed as a chain of linked `HIDReport.Collection` instances.

##### constructor(parent)

A new collection is always created as part of a collection path and thus should
receive the previous element in the chain as an argument. If a new path
is created, `null` should be passed as an argument.

##### print(stream)

Debug function, prints the report data to the specified function `stream`, for example, `server.log`.
