drivers/BootKeyboard/README.md, before:

## Boot Keyboard Driver

This class is an example of
[USB.Driver](../../docs/DriverDevelopmentGuide.md#usbdriver-class)
implementation. It exposes very simple API that allows to work with
any devices that implements
[Boot Keyboard Protocol](http://www.usb.org/developers/hidpage/HID1_11.pdf).


### Include the Driver and Dependencies

The driver depends on some constants and classes of the
[USB Framework](../../docs/DriverDevelopmentGuide.md) so that required files has
to be included by application developer. Please follow
[Application Developer Guide](../../docs/ApplicationDevelopmentGuide.md#including-usb-framework-and-driver-libraries)
on how to include the generic USB framework library.

**NOTE:** to add the Boot Keyboard driver into your project, use the following statement
on top of you application code:
```
#require "USB.device.lib.nut:1.0.0"
```
and then either include the Boot Keyboard into you application
by copy-pasting the code Boot Keyboard Driver code
or use the Builder's [include statements](https://github.com/electricimp/builder#include).

In the example below, the boot keyboard driver is included into an application:

```squirrel
#require "USB.device.lib.nut:1.0.0"
@include "github:electricimp/usb/drivers/BootKeyboard/BootKeyboard.device.lib.nut"
```

### Complete example

```squirrel
#require "PrettyPrinter.class.nut:1.0.1"
#require "JSONEncoder.class.nut:1.0.0"

// Include the USB framework and the BootKeyboard library
#require "USB.device.lib.nut:1.0.0"
@include "github:electricimp/usb/drivers/BootKeyboard/BootKeyboard.device.lib.nut"

// Debug print setup
pp     <- PrettyPrinter(null, false);
print  <- pp.print.bindenv(pp);

kbrDrv <- null;
leds   <- KBD_NUM_LOCK;

function blink() {
    if (!kbrDrv) {
        return;
    }

    kbrDrv.setLeds(leds);
    leds = leds << 1;
    if (leds > KBD_SCROLL_LOCK) leds = KBD_NUM_LOCK;
    imp.wakeup(1, blink);
}

function keyboardEventListener(status) {
    if (!kbrDrv) {
        return;
    }

    server.log("[App] Keyboard event");
    local error = "error" in status ? status.error : null;

    if (error == null) {
        print(status);
        kbrDrv.getKeyStatusAsync(keyboardEventListener);
    } else {
        server.error("[App] Error received: " + error);
    }
}

function usbDriverListener(event, driver) {
    if (event == USB_DRIVER_STATE_STARTED) {
        server.log("[App] BootKeyboardDriver started");
        kbrDrv = driver;
        // Report only when key status is changed
        kbrDrv.setIdleTimeMs(0);
        // Receive new key state every second
        kbrDrv.getKeyStatusAsync(keyboardEventListener);

        // start keyboard leds blinking
        imp.wakeup(1, blink);
    }
}

usbHost <- USB.Host(hardware.usb, [BootKeyboardDriver]);
usbHost.setDriverListener(usbDriverListener);

server.log("[App] USB initialization complete");
```

### Custom Mmatching Procedure

This driver matches only devices interfaces of `class` 3 (HID), `subclass` 1 (Boot) and `protocol` 1 (keyboard).

### Driver API

This driver exposes following API for application usage.

#### getKeyStatusAsync(callback)

Function sends read request through Interrupt IN endpoint, that gets data and notifies the caller asynchronously.

The function signature is as following:

| Parameter | Type | Description |
| --------- | ---- | ----------- |
| *callback* | Function | A function to receive the keyboard status |

The signature of callback function is following:

| Parameter | Type | Description |
| --------- | ---- | ----------- |
| *status* | Table | A table with a fields named after modifiers keys </br> and set of Key0...Key5 fields with pressed key scancodes. In case of an error the table is going to have the `error` field set to the error description. |

Example of the `status` table:
```
{
    error : null,
    LEFT_CTRL  : 1,
    LEFT_SHIFT : 0,
    Key0       : 32
    Key1       : 55
}
```

#### getKeyStatus()

A synchronous function that reads keyboard's report through the control endpoint 0.

It returns keyboard status [table](#keyboard-status-table) or throws if an error happens during transfer

#### setIdleTimeMs()

This request is used to limit the reporting frequency.

The function signature is following:

| Parameter | Type | Description |
| --------- | ---- | ----------- |
| *timeout* | Integer | poll duration in milliseconds [0...1020]. Zero means the duration is indefinite |

#### setLeds(leds)

Changes Keyboard LED status. It returns error description (if any) or NULL.

The function signature is following:

| Parameter | Type | Description |
| --------- | ---- | ----------- |
| *leds* | Integer/Bitfield | 8-bit field:</br>bit 0 - NUM LOCK</br>bit 1 - CAPS LOCK</br>bit 2 - SCROLL LOCK</br>bit 3 - COMPOSE</br>bit 4 - KANA |


#### Keyboard status table

Both [getKeyStatusAsync](#getkeystatusasynccallback) and [getKeyStatus](#getkeystatus)
return the keyboard state as a table of the following format:

| Field | Type | Description |
| --------- | ---- | ----------- |
| *error* | String | The field is present if any error occurred |
| *LEFT_CTRL* | Integer|  Left Ctrl status (1/0) |
| *LEFT_SHIFT* | Integer | Left Shift status (1/0) |
| *LEFT_ALT*  | Integer| Left Alt status (1/0) |
| *LEFT_GUI*  | Integer| Left Gui status (1/0) |
| *RIGHT_CTRL*  | Integer| Right Ctrl status (1/0) |
| *RIGHT_SHIFT*  | Integer| Right Shift status (1/0) |
| *RIGHT_ALT* | Integer| Right Alt status (1/0) |
| *RIGHT_GUI* | Integer| Right Gui status (1/0) |
| *Key0* | Integer| First scan code or 0 |
| *Key1* | Integer| Second scan code or 0 |
| *Key2* | Integer| Third scan code or 0 |
| *Key3* | Integer| Fourth scan code or 0 |
| *Key4* | Integer| Fifth scan code or 0 |
| *Key5* | Integer| Sixth scan code or 0 |

Commit message:

Added disclaimers for all the driver documentation.

drivers/BootKeyboard/README.md, after:

## Boot Keyboard Driver

This class is an example of
[USB.Driver](../../docs/DriverDevelopmentGuide.md#usbdriver-class)
implementation. It exposes very simple API that allows to work with
any devices that implements
[Boot Keyboard Protocol](http://www.usb.org/developers/hidpage/HID1_11.pdf).

**NOTE**: Please use the driver examples for reference only. They were tested with a limited number
of devices and may not support all devices of that type.

### Include the Driver and Dependencies

The driver depends on some constants and classes of the
[USB Framework](../../docs/DriverDevelopmentGuide.md) so that required files has
to be included by application developer. Please follow
[Application Developer Guide](../../docs/ApplicationDevelopmentGuide.md#including-usb-framework-and-driver-libraries)
on how to include the generic USB framework library.

**NOTE:** to add the Boot Keyboard driver into your project, use the following statement
on top of you application code:
```
#require "USB.device.lib.nut:1.0.0"
```
and then either include the Boot Keyboard into you application
by copy-pasting the code Boot Keyboard Driver code
or use the Builder's [include statements](https://github.com/electricimp/builder#include).

In the example below, the boot keyboard driver is included into an application:

```squirrel
#require "USB.device.lib.nut:1.0.0"
@include "github:electricimp/usb/drivers/BootKeyboard/BootKeyboard.device.lib.nut"
```

### Complete example

```squirrel
#require "PrettyPrinter.class.nut:1.0.1"
#require "JSONEncoder.class.nut:1.0.0"

// Include the USB framework and the BootKeyboard library
#require "USB.device.lib.nut:1.0.0"
@include "github:electricimp/usb/drivers/BootKeyboard/BootKeyboard.device.lib.nut"

// Debug print setup
pp     <- PrettyPrinter(null, false);
print  <- pp.print.bindenv(pp);

kbrDrv <- null;
leds   <- KBD_NUM_LOCK;

function blink() {
    if (!kbrDrv) {
        return;
    }

    kbrDrv.setLeds(leds);
    leds = leds << 1;
    if (leds > KBD_SCROLL_LOCK) leds = KBD_NUM_LOCK;
    imp.wakeup(1, blink);
}

function keyboardEventListener(status) {
    if (!kbrDrv) {
        return;
    }

    server.log("[App] Keyboard event");
    local error = "error" in status ? status.error : null;

    if (error == null) {
        print(status);
        kbrDrv.getKeyStatusAsync(keyboardEventListener);
    } else {
        server.error("[App] Error received: " + error);
    }
}

function usbDriverListener(event, driver) {
    if (event == USB_DRIVER_STATE_STARTED) {
        server.log("[App] BootKeyboardDriver started");
        kbrDrv = driver;
        // Report only when key status is changed
        kbrDrv.setIdleTimeMs(0);
        // Receive new key state every second
        kbrDrv.getKeyStatusAsync(keyboardEventListener);

        // start keyboard leds blinking
        imp.wakeup(1, blink);
    }
}

usbHost <- USB.Host(hardware.usb, [BootKeyboardDriver]);
usbHost.setDriverListener(usbDriverListener);

server.log("[App] USB initialization complete");
```

### Custom Mmatching Procedure

This driver matches only devices interfaces of `class` 3 (HID), `subclass` 1 (Boot) and `protocol` 1 (keyboard).

### Driver API

This driver exposes following API for application usage.

#### getKeyStatusAsync(callback)

Function sends read request through Interrupt IN endpoint, that gets data and notifies the caller asynchronously.

The function signature is as following:

| Parameter | Type | Description |
| --------- | ---- | ----------- |
| *callback* | Function | A function to receive the keyboard status |

The signature of callback function is following:

| Parameter | Type | Description |
| --------- | ---- | ----------- |
| *status* | Table | A table with a fields named after modifiers keys </br> and set of Key0...Key5 fields with pressed key scancodes. In case of an error the table is going to have the `error` field set to the error description. |

Example of the `status` table:
```
{
    error : null,
    LEFT_CTRL  : 1,
    LEFT_SHIFT : 0,
    Key0       : 32
    Key1       : 55
}
```

#### getKeyStatus()

A synchronous function that reads keyboard's report through the control endpoint 0.

It returns keyboard status [table](#keyboard-status-table) or throws if an error happens during transfer

#### setIdleTimeMs()

This request is used to limit the reporting frequency.

The function signature is following:

| Parameter | Type | Description |
| --------- | ---- | ----------- |
| *timeout* | Integer | poll duration in milliseconds [0...1020]. Zero means the duration is indefinite |

#### setLeds(leds)

Changes Keyboard LED status. It returns error description (if any) or NULL.

The function signature is following:

| Parameter | Type | Description |
| --------- | ---- | ----------- |
| *leds* | Integer/Bitfield | 8-bit field:</br>bit 0 - NUM LOCK</br>bit 1 - CAPS LOCK</br>bit 2 - SCROLL LOCK</br>bit 3 - COMPOSE</br>bit 4 - KANA |


#### Keyboard status table

Both [getKeyStatusAsync](#getkeystatusasynccallback) and [getKeyStatus](#getkeystatus)
return the keyboard state as a table of the following format:

| Field | Type | Description |
| --------- | ---- | ----------- |
| *error* | String | The field is present if any error occurred |
| *LEFT_CTRL* | Integer|  Left Ctrl status (1/0) |
| *LEFT_SHIFT* | Integer | Left Shift status (1/0) |
| *LEFT_ALT*  | Integer| Left Alt status (1/0) |
| *LEFT_GUI*  | Integer| Left Gui status (1/0) |
| *RIGHT_CTRL*  | Integer| Right Ctrl status (1/0) |
| *RIGHT_SHIFT*  | Integer| Right Shift status (1/0) |
| *RIGHT_ALT* | Integer| Right Alt status (1/0) |
| *RIGHT_GUI* | Integer| Right Gui status (1/0) |
| *Key0* | Integer| First scan code or 0 |
| *Key1* | Integer| Second scan code or 0 |
| *Key2* | Integer| Third scan code or 0 |
| *Key3* | Integer| Fourth scan code or 0 |
| *Key4* | Integer| Fifth scan code or 0 |
| *Key5* | Integer| Sixth scan code or 0 |
